## 1.4 History

The haxe project started on 22 October 2005 as a successor to the **Motion-Twin Action Script Compiler**, MTASC. French developer **Motion-Twin** had developed MTASC as a popular ActionScript 2 compiler, and the next logical step for them was to design their very own programming language, thus giving birth to haxe.

Being spelled **haXe** back then, its beta was released in February 2006 with the first supported targets being AVM-bytecode and Motion-Twin's own **Neko** virtual machine.

**Nicolas Cannasse**, who remains leader of the haxe project to this date, kept on designing haxe with a clear vision, subsequently leading to the haxe 1.0 release in May 2006. This first major release came with support for Javascript code generation and already had features that define haxe today, such was type inference and structural subtyping.

Haxe 1 saw several minor releases over the course of two years, adding the Flash 9 target along with the **haxelib**-tool in August 2006 and the Actionscript 3 target in March 2007. During these months, there was a strong focus on improving stability, which came in the form of several minor bugfix releases.

Haxe 2.0 was released in July 2008, coming with the PHP target courtesy of **Franco Ponticelli**. A similar effort by **Hugh Sanderson** then lead to addition of the C++ target in July 2009 with the haxe 2.04 release.

Just as with haxe 1, what followed were several month of stability releases. In January 2011, haxe 2.07 was released with the support of **macros**. Around that time, **Bruno Garcia** joined the team as maintainer of the Javascript target, which saw vast improvements in the subsequent 2.08 and 2.09 releases.

After the release of 2.09, **Simon Krajewski** joined the team and work began towards haxe 3. Furthermore, **Cauê Waneck**'s Java and C# targets found their way into the haxe builds. It was then decided to make a final haxe 2 release, which happened in July 2012 with the release of haxe 2.10.

In late 2012, the haxe 3 switch was flipped and the haxe compiler team, now backed by the newly established **Haxe Foundation**, focused on this next major version. Haxe 3 was subsequently released in May 2013.

---

Previous section: [Hello World](1.3-Hello_World.md)

Next section: [Types](2-Types.md)