## 2.3 Class Instance

Classes in haxe are the primary data structure for the majority of programs. Each haxe class has an explicit name, an implied path and zero or more class fields. This section focuses on the general structure of classes and their relations, while the details of class fields are discussed in [Class Fields](4-Class_Fields.md).


The following code example serves as a basis for the remainder of this section:

```haxe
class Point {
	var x : Int;
	var y : Int;
	public function new(x,y) {
		this.x = x;
		this.y = y;
	}
	public function toString() {
		return "Point("+x+","+y+")";
	}
}
```
Semantically, this class represents a point in discrete 2-dimensional space, but this is not important here. Let us instead describe the structure:



* The keyword `class` denotes that we are declaring a class.
* `Point` is the name of the class and could be anything conforming to the rules for type identifiers.
* Enclosed in curly braces `{}` are the class fields,
* which consist of two **variable** fields `x` and `y` of type `Int`
* followed by a special **function** field named `new`, which is the **constructor** of the class,
* as well as a normal function `toString`

>TODO: Later the manual uses "method" instead of "function."  I think they're generally understood to be interchangeable, but for consistency, I think it should use one or the other throughout




See [Class Fields](4-Class_Fields.md) for more details on the structure of classes.  There is a special type in haxe which is compatible with all classes:

> ##### Define: Class<T>
>
> This type is compatible with all class types. At compile-time, `Class<T>` can be considered the common base type of all class types. However, this relation is not reflected in generated code.

---

Previous section: [Nullability of Basic Types](2.2-Nullability_of_Basic_Types.md)

Next section: [Class Constructor](2.3.1-Class_Constructor.md)