## 2.7 Dynamic

While Haxe has a static type system, this type system can be bypassed by using the `Dynamic` type. A **dynamic value** can be assigned to anything, and anything can be assigned to it. This has several drawbacks:



* The compiler can no longer type-check assignments, function calls and other constructs where specific types are expected.
* Certain optimizations, in particular when compiling to static targets, can no longer be employed.
* Some common errors (e.g. a typo in a field access) can not be caught at compile-time and.
        * [Dead Code Elimination](7.6-Dead_Code_Elimination.md) cannot detect if a `Dynamic` fields is used..


It is very easy to come up with examples where the usage of `Dynamic` can cause problems at runtime. Consider compiling the following two lines to a static target:

```haxe
var d:Dynamic = 1;
d.foo;
```
Compiling and running this program for the Flash target yields an error `Property foo not found on Number and there is no default value`. Without `Dynamic`, this would have been detected at compile-time.

> ##### Trivia: Dynamic Inference before haxe 3
>
> The haxe 3 compiler never infers a type to `Dynamic`, so users must be explicit about it. Previous haxe versions used to infer arrays of mixed types (e.g. `[1, true, "foo"]`) as `Array<Dynamic>`. We found that this behavior introduced problems and thus removed it for haxe 3.>TODO: So what is the type of that array, or is it a compile error now?


Use of `Dynamic` should be minimized.  There are usually better options, but sometimes it is practical. Parts of the haxe [Reflection](6.6-Reflection.md) API use it, and it is sometimes the best option when dealing with custom data structures that are not known at compile-time.

`Dynamic` behaves in a special way when being [unified](3.5-Unification.md) with a [monomorph](2.9-Monomorph.md), which is described in [Monomorphs](3.5.3-Monomorphs.md).

> ##### Trivia: Dynamic in the Standard Library
>
> Dynamic was quite frequent in the haxe standard library before haxe 3. With the continuous improvements of the haxe type system, the occurences of Dynamic were reduced over the releases leading to haxe 3.

---

Previous section: [Default values](2.6.2-Default_values.md)

Next section: [Dynamic with Type Parameter](2.7.1-Dynamic_with_Type_Parameter.md)