## 3.7 Modules and Paths

>TODO: Could be more explicit about modules, packages, paths and impact on the file structure.  On that same vein, should probably talk about "static public function main" somewhere, probably earlier in the manual?


> ##### Define: Module
>
> All haxe code is organized in modules, which are addressed using paths. In essence, each .hx file represents a module which may contain several types. A type may be `private`, in which case only its containing module can access it.


The distinction of a module and its containing type of the same name is blurry by design. In fact, addressing `haxe.ds.StringMap<Int>` can be considered shorthand for `haxe.ds.StringMap.StringMap<Int>`. The latter version consists of four parts:



1. the package `haxe.ds`
2. the module name `StringMap`
3. the type name `StringMap`
4. the type parameter `Int`


If the module and type name are equal, the duplicate can be removed, leading to the `haxe.ds.StringMap<Int>`
>TODO: In the pdf, the expr fuction doesn't handle line wraps well

 short version. However, knowing about the extended version helps with understanding how [module sub-types](3.7.1-Module_Sub-Types.md) are addressed.

Paths can be shortened further by using an [import](3.7.2-Import.md), which allows omitting the package part of a path. However, This may lead to usage of unqualified identifiers, for which understanding the [resolution order](3.7.3-Resolution_Order.md) is required.

> ##### Define: Type path
>
> The (dot-)path to a type consists of the package, the module name and the type name. Its general form is `pack1.pack2.packN.ModuleName.TypeName`.

---

Previous section: [Limitations](3.6.2-Limitations.md)

Next section: [Module Sub-Types](3.7.1-Module_Sub-Types.md)